---
layout: post
title: Getting started
subtitle: Why I started writing down my thoughts
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags: [books, test]
---

Who I am and what I do:
My name is Lisa, I am 26 years old and for a bit more than one year I am working in the Support and Operations Team of a Startup. We are providing a loadmanagement for charging infrastructure and the charging hardware to a lot of different customers.
On the Team for this specific Product, so far, it was my manager (who was too busy to help much, also he ha other tasks to do), me (who is facing the customers) and my colleague who is working on the very detailed software parts. This means I am the primary contact for software and hardware issues for more than 500 sites. 

How I came up with the idea to write down my thoughts and experiences:
Spoiler: It was not me who had the idea. 
I was travelling back from a wedding in Münster together with my boyfriend, using the time on our train ride to collect some inspiration for a new project at work. I was asked if I would like to develop new SLAs for our Support and Operation. As I am only working in this field for 13 months I was searching online for some ideas and best practices. I also tried to find some inspiration online before on how to improve our customer support.
The only problem is: I could not really find content. Most of the things I could find are not detailed or for less technical products. The best practices of customer service for pizza delivery didn’t seem to help me much.
So I was again trying to find something online and got frustrated, so I told my boyfriend about it.
And he came up with the idea to create the content on my own, if I struggle to find it online, others will go through the same struggles. I could create value for me and others by writing down my thoughts and what i learned.

So here I am writing about it.

I never worked in customer support before. I applied in a young company because I wanted to work in Charger business. I was not sure if I would like to work in customer support because for me it had the image of answering a hotline all day. Not very appealing. In the end my manager could convince me to join the team.
I needed to jump in the cold water. After 2 weeks I was asked to take care of our sites. Providing Hard- and Software Support to a variety of different customers. A very short and intense onboarding. Most of the things about support, how to handle customers, what I know about our product, I learned them myself.

What did I learn?
1. Private customers are impatient. In case they are affected by Hardware issues they want a new charger asap. Repair is ok but only if you can provide it fast
2. Complex product and customers don’t work well together: the more complex your product is (meaning technical details, usage, add ons) the harder it is for your customer. There is more space for questions. Provide a solution which is as easy as possible. Don’t expect that customers will read an E-Mail or long manuals.
3. Small companies behave similar to end customers.
4. Companies with different branches will forget about the project manager located in the headquarter. They will contact customer support. Always add the project manager to topics (especially if decisions are needed to things are at risk to be escalated). He or she will handle the situation company intern.
5. Big customers or fleets are important customers to you and they want to be handled as such. They want to feel important to you. 
6. In any case customers want to get regular updates on their tickets. They want to see that you are working on it. No update means no progress to them. Even if you are still waiting for a third party or don’t have any news: give regular updates. In case of critical situations: agree with the customer on a timespan in which you will update him or her about the progress.
